# copilot-training

Material for consultation during Copilot demos/trainings.

The code content in this repository is 100% generated by Copilot.

Any demo should start from scratch, trying to reproduce what is present here. However, as any LLM, Copilot will not reproduce an equal copy and may lead to problems. This repository should be used to escape one of these "demo effect" situations :)

The assumption is that the demos consist of two parts:

1. Writing two shell scripts to interact with the GitHub API (create a repository and list repositories in an organization). This shows that Copilot can handle scripting and how an integration with an API works.
2. Implementing a command-line tool that performs basic math operations. This, though simple, shows how fast one can go from 0 to a functional tool that includes tests and validations. The benefit of a CLI tool is that pretty much any of the most popular languages can support it with minimal effort and library utilization.

# Dotnet

A valid prompt to trigger the dotnet demo in Copilot Chat could be along the lines of:

> I am new to the dotnet environment and I need to develop a command line tool. Please guide me step-by-step on how to scaffold a new project, including the skeleton structure for unit tests.

This will trigger the creation of a new `console` application:

`dotnet new console -n MyTool`

Then the inclusion of unit test structure:

`dotnet new xunit -n MyTool.Tests`

The link between them:

`dotnet add MyTool.Tests reference MyTool`

And then build and execution: 

```
dotnet build
dotnet test
```

## Common Problems

- The version of xUnit will likely be too low. If this is the case, you will need to upgrade it in the `.csproj` file in the test folder.
- If you run into a problem of "repeated declarations", you might need to either make sure that the main `.csproj` contains the below two lines or that both solutions are in folders that are in the same level in the structure:

```
<GenerateTargetFrameworkAttribute>false</GenerateTargetFrameworkAttribute>
<GenerateAssemblyInfo>false</GenerateAssemblyInfo>
```
